---
layout     : post
title      : "Why I am a paying member of cloud.sagemath"
categories : code
tags       :
- sage
comments   : true
---

If you are not familiar with [Sagemath](http://www.sagemath.org/) it is a free
open source mathematics package that does simple things like expand algebraic
expressions as well as far more complex things (optimisation, graph theory,
combinatorics, game theory etc...). [Cloud.sagemath](https://cloud.sagemath.com)
is a truly amazing tool not just for Sage bu for scientific computation in
general and it's **free**. Completely 100% free. In this post I'll explain why I
pay for it.

A while ago, a colleague and I were having a chat about the fact that our site
Maple license hadn't been renewed fast enough (or something similar to that). My
colleague was fairly annoyed by this saying something like:

> 'We are kind of like professional athletes, if I played soccer at a
> professional club I would have the best facilities available to me. There
> would not be a question of me having the best boots.'

Now I don't think we ever finished this conversation (or at least I don't really
remember what I said) but this is something that's stayed with me for quite a
while.

**First of all:**

I think there are probably a very large proportion of professional soccer
players who do not play at the very top level and so do not enjoy having access
to the very best facilities (I certainly wouldn't consider myself the Ronaldo of
mathematics...).

**Secondly:**

Mathematicians are (in some ways) **way cooler** than soccer players. We are
somewhat like magicians, in the past we have not needed much more than a pencil
and some paper to work our craft. Whilst a chemist/physicist/medical research
needs a lab and/or other things we can pretty much work just with a whiteboard.

We are basically magicians. We can make something from nothing.

Since moving to open source software for all my research and teaching this is
certainly how I've felt. Before discovering open source tools I needed to make
sure I had the correct licence or otherwise before I could work but this is no
longer the case. I just need a very basic computer (I bought a thinkpad for Â£60
the other day!) and I am just as powerful as I could want to be.

This is even more **true** with [cloud.sagemath](https://cloud.sagemath.com).
Anyone can use a variety of scientific computing tools for no cost whatsoever
(not even a cost associated with the time spent installing software): it just
works. I have used this to work on sage source code with students, carry out
research and also to deliver presentations: it's awesome.

**So, why do I pay $7 month to use it?**

Firstly because it gives me the ability to move some projects to servers that
are supposedly more robust. I have no doubt that they are more robust but in all
honesty I can't say I've seen problems with the 'less' robust servers (150 of my
students used them last year and will be doing so again in the Autumn).

**The main reason I pay to use cloud.sagemath is because I can afford to.**

This was put in very clear terms to me during the organisation of [DjangoCon
Europe](http://2015.djangocon.eu/). The principle at Python conferences is that
everyone pays to attend. This in turn ensures that funds are available for
people who cannot afford to pay to attend.

I am in a lucky enough financial position that for about the price of two fancy
cups of coffee a month I can help support an absolutely amazing project that
helps everyone and anyone have the same powers a magician does. This helps
(although my contribution is obviously a very small part of it) ensure that
students and anyone else who cannot afford to help support the project, can use
Sage.
